---
layout: post
---
My 10-month, intensive, job-like internship ended last week. In this time I believe I brought a lot of value to this company, fresh ideas and improvements, some of which I would like to share here. 

#### documentation
For starters, the importance of a documentation. For 6 months I have been roaming around a website with different parts, and different procedures with no documentation to guide me through it, just my boss, who has probably built that logic a couple years ago. Naturally, this led to some mistakes and me finding out later how and why this or that had to be done. Later a new intern came in and she asked the same questions as I did and made the same mistakes. It was obvious what had to be done – to build a documentation about the website’s main structure and main procedures so each new member of the dev team could start working and actually producing much faster than I and my college did.

#### automation
Secondly, how important it is to automate each process that is time consuming and unnecessary. When I arrived at the company, they were manually copying articles from a Word document to an HTML file and publishing those. When the content team found errors or wanted to correct something, they sent an email to one of the developers with the changes to make. Obviously, I and my college had other more important things to do than search html pages and correct small things, not to mention how much time of redundant work it was to copy-paste articles. When I’ve had enough, I suggested a headless CMS. It was the perfect solution. A platform where the content team could create, correct and keep track of all the articles, the only thing the dev team needed to do was set up this workflow. I made a function that would fetch the content from a brand-new page on the CMS platform to a PHP file and was free to keep myself busy with other things. 

#### minimum viable product
Thirdly, I understood that is not possible to develop without having a minimum viable product in mind. There were countless times when something I did three or four months ago was reviewed and I got asked to make some changes to it, because they were small and easy to implement. Or moments when I was implementing a feature and someone got an idea of another, and then another and since they were all so simple and small, they kept being added to my TODO list. But is the end of this tunnel of features? When is the product ready for production? I started developing a tool for the company in November 2020 and never really finished it. Of course, I was the only frontend programmer, and the tool was based on a huge amount of data that had to be processed and displayed ideally for the user. Still, I believe it is crucial to put an end to features at some point, to have something, that although is not the final and most elaborate version, is a version that works and can start gathering feedback from the user. Otherwise, we are compromising effectiveness and putting off revenue. There will always be one feature and one more idea.

It was a very nice experience, one I’ve definitely panicked through and got out on top, and a better JavaScript programmer.